test/README.md, before:

Injector Integration Tests
==========================

This directory contains integration tests for the injector code.
The tests in this folder do not use a multi-platform image; instead, an injector binary is build (in a container)
per CPU architecture, and then used for testing.
Note that the Zig source code in `src` also contains Zig unit tests.

The available test cases for the injector integration tests are listed in the files
`test/scripts/*.tests`.

Usage
-----

* `scripts/test-all.sh` to run all tests.
* `ARCHITECTURES=arm64,amd64 scripts/test-all.sh` to run tests for a subset of CPU architectures.
  Can be combined with `LIBC_FLAVORS` and other flags.
* `LIBC_FLAVORS=glibc,musl scripts/test-all.sh` to run tests for a subset of libc flavors.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES` and other flags.
* `TEST_SETS=default,node_js,jvm,sdk-does-not-exist,sdk-cannot-be-accessed` to only run a subset of test sets. The test
   set names are the different `scripts/*.tests` files. Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc.
* `TEST_CASES="overrides NODE_OPTIONS if it is not present" scripts/test-all.sh` to only run test cases whose
  names _exactly match_ one of the provided strings.
  The test cases are listed in the different test sets, i.e. the `scripts/*.tests` files.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc., cannot be combined with `TEST_CASES_CONTAINING`.
* `TEST_CASES_CONTAINING=OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES,OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES scripts/test-all.sh` to only run tests cases
  whose names _contain_ one of the provided strings as a substring.
  The test cases are listed in the different `scripts/*.tests` files.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc., cannot be combined with `TEST_CASES`.
* Set `VERBOSE=true` to always include the output from running the test case. Otherwise, the output is only
  printed to stdout when a test case fails.
* Set `INTERACTIVE=true` to get a shell into the container under test, instead of running a test. Best used when working
  on a test for one specific runtime, you would usually want to combine this with something like
  `ARCHITECTURES=arm64 LIBC_FLAVORS=glibc TEST_SETS=dotnet INTERACTIVE=true scripts/test-all.sh` to narrow down the
  scope to one container under test.

Commit message:

chore: use arena allocator for intermediate values in config.zig (#184)
Using std.testing.allocator consistently in all unit tests for config
parsing revealed that src/config.zig previously leaked memory for a
couple of intermediate values. For example default values for config
settings that go out of scope when they are replaced with the actual
configured value from the config file or from environment variables, but
also allocated strings that are handled during parsing.

While it is certainly possible to get rid of those by carefully
sprinkling allocator.free calls all over the code, this approach is
error-prone and will also incur high maintenance effort down the road.

Using an arena allocator for the intermediate values and freeing them
all at once when the parsing is done is more robust.A

This fixes #181 partially, for src/config.zig.

test/README.md, after:

Injector Integration Tests
==========================

This directory contains integration tests for the injector code.
The tests in this folder do not use a multi-platform image; instead, an injector binary is build (in a container)
per CPU architecture, and then used for testing.
Note that the Zig source code in `src` also contains Zig unit tests.

The available test cases for the injector integration tests are listed in the files
`test/scripts/*.tests`.

Usage
-----

* `scripts/test-all.sh` to run all tests.
* `ARCHITECTURES=arm64,amd64 scripts/test-all.sh` to run tests for a subset of CPU architectures.
  Can be combined with `LIBC_FLAVORS` and other flags.
* `LIBC_FLAVORS=glibc,musl scripts/test-all.sh` to run tests for a subset of libc flavors.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES` and other flags.
* `TEST_SETS=default,node_js,jvm,sdk-does-not-exist,sdk-cannot-be-accessed` to only run a subset of test sets. The test
   set names are the different `scripts/*.tests` files. Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc.
* `TEST_CASES="overrides NODE_OPTIONS if it is not present" scripts/test-all.sh` to only run test cases whose
  names _exactly match_ one of the provided strings.
  The test cases are listed in the different test sets, i.e. the `scripts/*.tests` files.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc., cannot be combined with `TEST_CASES_CONTAINING`.
* `TEST_CASES_CONTAINING=OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES,OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES scripts/test-all.sh` to only run tests cases
  whose names _contain_ one of the provided strings as a substring.
  The test cases are listed in the different `scripts/*.tests` files.
  Can be combined with `ARCHITECTURES`, `LIBC_FLAVORS` etc., cannot be combined with `TEST_CASES`.
* Set `VERBOSE=true` to set `OTEL_INJECTOR_LOG_LEVEL=debug` when running test cases and to always include the output
  from running the test case. Otherwise, the default log level (`error`) is used, and output is only printed to stdout
  when a test case fails.
* Set `INTERACTIVE=true` to get a shell into the container under test, instead of running a test. Best used when working
  on a test for one specific runtime, you would usually want to combine this with something like
  `ARCHITECTURES=arm64 LIBC_FLAVORS=glibc TEST_SETS=dotnet INTERACTIVE=true scripts/test-all.sh` to narrow down the
  scope to one container under test.
