<!-- This file is autogenerated. See CONTRIBUTING.md for instructions to add an entry. -->

# Changelog

<!-- next version -->

## v0.0.3-20260109

### 🛑 Breaking changes 🛑

- `injector`: Remove link-time dependency on `__environ`, inject environment variables once at startup via setenv instead of overriding libc's getenv function. (#166)
  This removes the declaration `extern var __environ: [*]u8` from the injector, that is, the dependency on the `__environ`
  pointer symbol exported by libc.
  
  Motivation: The injector may be linked to binaries that, while dynamically linked, do not link any libc. This would
  result in the injector preventing the program from starting due to a linker error, effectively crashing the
  application under monitoring.
  
  This change introduces a way to look up the `dlsym` symbol, and then in turn through `dlsym` the `__environ` and
  `setenv` symbols. This happens at runtime in an initialization step, by inspecting the process' memory and
  finding the `dlsym` symbol in memory. This allows us to read and manipulate the process environment without depending
  on any external symbols at link time. More importantly, we have the option to stand down if looking up
  `dlsym`/`__environ`/`setenv` fails, and let the host process continue, instead of crashing it at startup.
  
  Also, the injector now no longer overrides libc's `getenv` to inject environment variables but instead unconditionally
  injects all environment variables by calling `setenv` at startup. This change is necessary, because even when removing
  the dependency on the `__environ` symbol (see above), there would still be potential to break certain executables:
    - For example, on some older distributions (Debian 11/bullseye is one), `libc` and `libdl` are two distinct libary
      files, with `libdl` containing `dlopen`, `dlcose`, `dlsym` and `dlerror`. When a binary only binds `libc`, but not
      `libdl`, we would not find the `dlsym` symbol (because it is actually really not loaded into memory), hence we
      wouldn't be able to find the `__environ` or `setenv` symbols. As a consequence, we would not be able to backfill
      the injector-internal representation of the environment (std.os.environ/std.posix.getenv in the Zig code) and
      _all_ calls to `getenv` would return null; i.e. we would effectively obliterate the environment of the process.
    - Another issue is that, if a binary binds `libcrypto` (i.e. uses OpenSSL), it will try to look up the
      `OPENSSL_armcap` environment variable before the injector init code even has ran. With the `getenv` override, this
      would always return null, even if `OPENSSL_armcap` is set (independent of the `libdl` issue described above).
      Hence, overriding `getenv` would break some of OpenSSL's assumptions.
    - Many runtimes do not use `getenv` to read environment variables. E.g. the JVM as well as the CLR use `getenv` in
      their native startup code, but when environment variables are read from with the runtime, the reading bypasses
      `getenv`. Hence, overriding getenv is not feasible to inject reliably into these runtimes. The same is true for
      Python. Injecting via `setenv` solves this problem.
  
  Last but not least, we no longer inject resource attributes into the JVM via the workaround of adding
  `-Dotel.resource.attributes` to `JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS`. This was only necessary because the JVM does not read
  `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES` via `getenv` (see previous paragraph), hence this was a necessary workaround with the
  override-getenv approach. With the switch to `setenv`, it is no longer necessary.
  

### 💡 Enhancements 💡

- `environment`: Limit all_auto_instrumentation_agents_env_path env vars to entries prefixed with OTEL_. (#176)
- `config`: add OTEL_INJECTOR_CONFIG_FILE to set config file location (#188)
  This adds support for a new environment variable `OTEL_INJECTOR_CONFIG_FILE` that determines from which path the
  injector's configuration file is read. If the variable is not set or empty, the configuration file is read from the
  default path `/etc/opentelemetry/otelinject.conf`.
  
  This is useful in environments where you want to provide a configuration file, but you do not want to make any
  assumptions about the underlying file system's structure. I.e. you want to keep all assets of the injector (injector
  binary, auto-instrumentation agents and the injector configuration) completely separate from standard OS directories
  like `/etc`.
  

### 🧰 Bug fixes 🧰

- `environment`: Fix out of index error when leveraging all_auto_instrumentation_agents_env_path with more than one env var. (#173)
- `config`: Fix handling of overly long lines in config file (#174)
  Continue to read the rest of the config file after discarding an overly long line

<!-- previous-version -->

## v0.0.2-20251216

### 🛑 Breaking changes 🛑

- `systemd`: Remove systemd instructions (#68)
  We can remove systemD instructions as the LD_PRELOAD solution works just as well and applies to any software.
  

### 💡 Enhancements 💡

- `injector`: Adds support for selectively applying instrumentation to subset of programs running on a system (#84)
  The change allows users to implement filters on what to instrument based on the executable name and the command line arguments
- `environment`: Add option to pass custom environment variables to agents (#82)
  Now it is possible to pass custom environment variables to agents.
  
  New `all_auto_instrumentation_agents_env_path` configuration option is used to specify path to
  the `auto_instrumentation_env.conf` - where custom environment variables could be specified.
  Injector will pass these variables to agents.
  

### 🧰 Bug fixes 🧰

- `nodejs`: test nodeJS support (#127)
  Testing identified issues with the RPM and Debian packages.
  The Debian and RPM packages now contain the nodeJS dependencies organized in a folder structure rather than an archive.
  The configuration points correctly to the file to load to launch autoinstrumentation.
  
  NodeJS tests now run as part of CI.
  

<!-- previous-version -->

## v0.0.1-20251030

### 🛑 Breaking changes 🛑

- `injector`: Replace the C-based OpenTelemetry injector with an injector written in Zig, donated by Dash0. (#230)
  This new injector will be the foundation for future enhancements of LD_PRELOAD based auto-instrumentation.
  It replaces the current injector (written in C) with its setenv-based approach with a new injector (written in Zig)
  that overrides getenv.
  The previous injector was built in a way that binds to a libc. This works when the injector is distributed as an RPM
  or DEB package, but is not suitable for instrumenting workloads on systems where the libc flavor (glibc or musl)
  is not known ahead of time, e.g. instrumenting arbitrary Kubernetes workloads.
  Furthermore, the new injector behaves more gracefully when the environment variable that is to be injected (e.g.
  JAVA_TOOL_OPTIONS, or NODE_OPTIONS) is already present, as it merges existing options with the key-value pairs it
  injects.
  Since this change is a complete rewrite, it is marked as a breaking change.
  

<!-- previous-version -->

