# How to Contribute to the OpenTelemetry Injector

We'd love your help!

This project is [Apache 2.0 licensed](LICENSE) and accepts contributions via GitHub pull requests. This document outlines some of the conventions on development workflow, contact points and other resources to make it easier to get your contribution accepted.

We gratefully welcome improvements to documentation as well as to code.

## Getting Started

### Pre-requisites

* Docker version 23.0.0 or greater.

### Local development cheat sheet

* `make test` to run unit tests
* `make rpm-package deb-package` to build the RPM and Debian package

### Workflow

It is recommended to follow the ["GitHub Workflow"](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/). When using [GitHub's CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli), here's how it typically looks like:

```bash
gh repo fork github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-injector
git checkout -b your-feature-branch
# do your changes
git commit -sam "Add feature X"
gh pr create
```

## Contributing

Your contribution is welcome! For it to be accepted, we have a few standards that must be followed.

### New features

Before starting the development of a new feature, please create an issue and discuss it with the project maintainers. Features should come with documentation and enough tests (unit and/or end-to-end).

### Bug fixes

Every bug fix should be accompanied by a unit test, so that we can prevent regressions.

### Documentation, typos, ...

They are mostly welcome!

### Adding a Changelog Entry

The [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) file in this repo is autogenerated from `.yaml` files in the `./.chloggen` directory.

Your pull-request should add a new `.yaml` file to this directory. The name of your file must be unique since the last release.

During the collector release process, all `./.chloggen/*.yaml` files are transcribed into `CHANGELOG.md` and then deleted.

If a changelog entry is not required, add either `[chore]` to the title of the pull request or add the `"Skip Changelog"` label to disable this action.

**Recommended Steps**
1. Create an entry file using `make chlog-new`. This generates a file based on your current branch (e.g. `./.chloggen/my-branch.yaml`)
2. Fill in all fields in the new file
3. Run `make chlog-validate` to ensure the new file is valid
4. Commit and push the file

Alternately, copy `./.chloggen/TEMPLATE.yaml`, or just create your file from scratch.
